Previously on Teen Wolf...
It's a dead pool.
A hit list of supernatural creatures.
Why would someone
use all this money just to kill us?
- I know exactly who The Benefactor is.
- Meredith.
It was your idea.
I will take out all of them!
Is it over?
- I'm not a murderer.
- But you are a predator.
- My strength, the healing. All of it.
- Gone?
Whatever Kate did to me,
it's still happening.
Banshees predict death.
You wanna bail on the plan.
We're all going to church!
Mexico.
Scott!
You ever heard of the Berserkers?
They wore the skins of bears
to channel their ferocity.
No, Kate. Don't. No!
Scott?
I'm going to have
to do a better job of covering that up.
What did you do to him?
How.
That's... That's the better story.
You see, when I first
got away from the Calaveras,
I had no idea where to go.
But something
kept pulling me here,
to the temple of Tezcatlipoca.
His name means "smoking mirror"
and this place
is a temple of the smoking mirror.
Obsidian.
When I got here,
I found the Berserkers waiting for me.
They helped me survive.
I didn't know quite why
until just recently.
Until I decided to trust someone
I never thought I'd trust.
It was then that I found out
I could not only control the Berserkers,
but I could create them.
They call me La Loba.
"The Bone Woman."
We let you out
because I needed to test his loyalty.
Did you know
that Scott became an Alpha
without having to kill anyone?
He's been through
quite a lot without ever having to kill.
I think it's time to change that.
No. No, Scott.
No, Scott, no.
You are not going to Mexico.
Dad, Scott and Kira have been kidnapped
and taken to Mexico. Okay?
I think that's a pretty good reason
for a trip to Mexico.
Okay.
Even if Deaton is right about this,
the best thing to do is
to go through the proper channels.
- Dad...
- That means
calling the right
law enforcement agencies,
border patrol,
putting out an all-points.
Dad, I can't just wait around
for the wheels of bureaucracy
to start spinning
in five different government offices. Okay?
Someone needs to go down there
right now, find them and rescue them.
I'm going.
I can keep you from going.
I'd find a way.
- I can throw you in a cell.
- I'd still find a way.
Stiles, please.
Look, just give me a little more time
to verify something
slightly more concrete
than a psychic vision
by some guy with a third eye!
Look, I will call every law
enforcement agency
all the way down
to South America if I have to.
If nothing turns up,
then I'll book two flights to Mexico.
We'll both go. Okay?
Okay, okay, great.
Do I get a gun?
No.
I still don't like
relying on these things.
| get it. You miss your power.
I would, too.
It's not about power,
it's about being able to help.
I don't like feeling helpless.
I'm human.
Do I look helpless?
You're a much better shot than me.
Do you really think
you won't be coming back?
Not alive.
You know I'm not okay with that.
lam.
If it saves Scott and Kira.
But to be honest, I don't even know
if this is enough firepower
to take down one Berserker.
Not even close.
Killing a Berserker
is next to impossible.
It's not just the firepower,
it's breaking the animal spirit
from the human.
Well, the one person we know
with that kind of experience is Argent.
And he's not getting back to me.
Well, then you're going to need help.
Like Malia, maybe Liam.
Definitely me.
Here, try that.
Fabric softener.
Remember, Scott's life is on the line.
Yeah. That works, too.
Oh! Liam, go home.
You're not coming with us.
- Why not?
- Because it's a full moon.
And I don't feel like
driving all the way down to Mexico
- just to have you rip my throat out.
- You can lock me up, right?
Chain me down
to the back seat or something?
You tore through
the last chains, remember?
Yeah, we would have to freeze you
in carbonite to get you down there.
Okay, then where do we get carbonite?
Seriously, you haven't seen it either?
Wait!
- What if we put me in the trunk?
- You'd get out of that, too.
Liam, you've been a werewolf
all of five minutes.
- You don't have to do this.
- I know I don't, but I want to.
There's gotta be bigger chains,
a bigger trunk or something.
There has to be.
Maybe there is.
How did you get
a prison transport van?
I'm a U.S. Marshal.
Yeah, ljust thought
that was just a cover.
Are we really bringing him?
We're bringing everyone that we can.
And considering Scott and Kira
were taken the night before a full moon,
- we should probably get going.
- What's that mean?
If Kate took Scott back
to the same temple that she took Derek,
how do we know she's not planning to
do the same thing to him?
What, she wants to make him younger?
Or take him back to when
he wasn't a werewolf.
A werewolf can't steal
a true Alpha's power.
But maybe a Nagual jaguar,
with the power of
Tezcatlipoca behind her...
Maybe she can.
So, if everyone is
sufficiently freaked out,
- I say we get going.
- We can't.
Not without Lydia.
I hope this works.
What's she doing
at the school anyway?
We got Kira's sword, but we need
something with a stronger scent.
Lydia went to get a jacket
out of her locker.
- Nothing.
- If she has a car,
- she can catch up to us.
- That's a good point.
- We'll call her from the road.
- No. What if something happened?
- What if she's in trouble?
- Fine. You stay, you find her.
We're gonna go on without you.
I could call Mason.
He has a study group at school.
Maybe he could look for her.
All right. Fine.
I need to be back there
with Derek and Liam.
I've got some experience
dealing with out-of-control teen wolves.
You're gonna be okay
riding with Peter?
He is my father.
Maybe we could do some bonding.
No. No bonding.
Play the radio, play it loud.
It's not just Kate,
it's Berserkers.
You might see human eyes
behind those skulls.
Do not assume that
there's any humanity left.
Oh. This little one
is terrified of them, aren't you?
Don't worry, my friend.
It is that fear that will keep you alive.
A reminder to everyone.
You do not fight Berserkers to survive,
you fight to kill.
Yeah, her car's here.
You want me to look around the school
and see if I can find her?
Yeah, definitely.
Call me as soon as you find her.
All good?
- Okay.
- I brought something to help you.
This has been with my family
for centuries.
It's a very powerful,
supernatural talisman.
We use to teach Betas how to
control themselves on a full moon.
Yes, it's powerful.
Very powerful.
Lydia?
No wonder she's not answering.
What the hell?
Do you mind if I turn the radio down?
You worried about Stiles?
I'm worried about everyone.
Do I need to be worried about you?
We have to go through the Berserkers
to get to Kate.
Then we have to go through Kate
to get to Scott and Kira.
Trust me,
it's going to get messy.
Scott says we don't kill people.
You think
Scott would kill to save Kira?
Would you?
Kill to save Stiles?
What is it?
The full moon.
Good.
You'll need that power.
Whatever you were gonna teach me...
I think you better start.
It's all right to cry.
It's no measure of your strength.
But I'm not strong.
I need to get up.
I need to tell them...
How do you know you can't?
Because I'm not healing.
You told me why I never get sick.
And you said I'd learn to heal.
Then learn.
I can't.
I don't know how,
how to start,
or what to do.
I told you once that foxes
and wolves tend not to get along.
But they are
similar creatures, aren't they?
You've seen wolves heal.
How do they do it?
Kira,
how do they trigger it?
Pain.
With pain.
Are you okay?
- My head... Oh.
- Yeah, it's probably gonna hurt a lot.
There was this guy.
Huge, really huge.
He had a, a skull on his face.
Yeah. I know. I saw it, too.
- My phone's gone.
- Yeah. I think that's the point.
Okay. Well, wait,
what's he gonna do to us?
I don't know. But it definitely
doesn't want us to leave.
Lydia, why do you keep saying "it"?
What is that thing?
Not human.
Liam, you with me?
We have a mantra that we use.
You repeat it, you focus on the words.
It's like meditating.
You say the words until
you feel control coming back to you.
Okay. Okay, okay!
What are the words?
Okay, look at the triskelion.
See the symbol?
l have a tattoo on my back,
it's the same thing.
Each spiral means something.
Alpha, Beta, Omega.
It represents the idea
that we can always rise
to one and fall back to another.
Betas can become Alphas.
- Alphas can become Betas.
- Can Alphas become Omegas?
All you have to do is
say the three words.
And with each one, you tell yourself
you're getting calmer,
more in control.
Go ahead.
- Alpha, Beta...
- Slower.
Alpha... Beta...
Omega...
Alpha...
Beta...
- Omega...
- Good. Say it again.
Remember, every time you say
the words, you're getting calmer.
Alpha, Beta...
Whoa, whoa.
- Omega.
- Say it again.
Derek, I don't think the powerful talisman
of self-control is working.
Liam, say it again!
Liam!
Whoa.
Whoa!
Derek?
I think we're gonna
need to go a little faster.
Keep going!
Liam!
Liam...
We're almost there.
You're trying to stay in control?
Trying to stay human.
That's exactly your problem.
Scott has you thinking
that control and humanity
are the same for us.
Allow me to give you
some fatherly advice.
If you're gonna face something as animal
as a Berserker and try to win,
you need to focus on
the animal inside you.
You'll need every ounce of ferocity
and savagery you can muster.
You'll need it all.
Keep focus!
Derek, I don't think "Alpha, Beta, Omega"
is resonating with him.
You know any other mantras?
Yeah. I do.
Liam, Liam.
What three things
cannot long be hidden?
Liam!
Liam, look at me.
What three things cannot long be hidden?
What three things?
Sun...
The moon...
- The truth.
- That's it. Say it again.
Sun, the moon...
The truth.
Derek?
We're okay.
Sun...
Moon...
And the truth.
I can't believe I did it.
For a minute there, I thought I was gonna
tear the two of you apart.
Yeah. That would've made
for an awkward ride home. So, thanks.
Think you can bring
the same level of control
and strength inside La lglesia?
All right.
We might actually be able to do this.
How bad is it?
I'm fine, I'm fine. Just get to Scott.
Just find him.
We'll be right behind you.
Go.
Go!
Hey, hey, save him.
This way.
Lydia was right.
Okay, everyone stop,
stop, stop, stop, stop.
We gotta figure out where we are,
then we gotta figure out
how to find Scott and Kira.
How do I even have service...
Hi, Dad.
Okay, Dad, I know you're angry.
Oh, I'm beyond angry.
I've reached a level of fury
that you could
not possibly comprehend.
Okay, well, when I get back,
you can ground me.
Ground you? Ground you?
I'm going to hobble you!
Now, please, tell me you're all right.
Tell me that you're safe.
You want me to lie?
Oh, God.
Okay. Tell me, tell me what I can do.
How can I help?
She was at the school
when we called Mason to look for her,
but now we're not
hearing back from either of them.
I don't know, Dad,
I don't know what I'm doin'.
You know, I'm just...
I'm trying to save my friends.
Okay.
I'll find Lydia and Mason.
You get Scott and Kira.
You save your friends.
Dad, if it's one of
the Berserkers at the school,
you're gonna need firepower. A lot.
What do we do now?
Duck.
Get down. Go, go, go.
Whoa! Get back!
Get back! Go!
Go, go, go, go!
Can you still pull a trigger?
Yeah.
All right.
Stay with me.
You're gonna be okay.
It's a mortal wound.
And right now I'm feeling pretty mortal.
I'm not gonna let you die.
Yeah, you mightjust
have to concentrate on saving yourself.
I don't hear it.
- Come on.
- No, no.
There's only one way out
on this side of the basement.
I know.
But if we don't get out of here,
someone's going to die.
- How do you know that?
- ljust do.
We have to at least see
if he's blocking the exit.
Yeah. Yeah, he's blockin' it.
Go, go, go!
Go find Kira and Scott.
Go!
How much did they pay you?
Way more than you're worth.
Scott?
Kira?
Oh.
- Are you okay?
- It's Scott. Stiles, it's Scott.
- What?
- The Berserker. It's him.
- Kate did it.
- What are you talking about?
She made him into one of them.
I don't know how, but it's him.
If they don't know it,
they could kill him.
That's why Lydia's not here.
They won't know they're killing Scott.
Derek?
- Are you serious?
- Very.
A baseball bat?
Against that guy?
Or thing or whatever it is.
My friends are in trouble.
And so is Liam, your best friend.
They need me. I'm going for it.
And yes, with a baseball bat.
I thought you said it wanted to
keep us here, not hurt us.
- I think it changed its mind.
- Excuse me.
Catch.
You both okay?
It was after me.
It wanted me to stay in Beacon Hills.
I think this was all
some sort of distraction.
Because you knew
they're trying to kill someone.
Kill who?
Scott.
Take him. Aim for the skull!
Kill it. Kill it now!
No, wait, wait. Malia, wait!
It's Scott. It's Scott.
Scott? Scott, don't!
Scott, it's me.
Scott, don't!
Scott.
They're not going down!
Nothing's getting through that armor
and I'm running out of ammo.
Scott, Scott, listen, listen, listen!
You're not a monster!
You're a werewolf!
Like me.
You.
The only one who knew
as much as Argent about Berserkers.
About the Nagual.
You taught Kate. You helped her.
All for power.
For my family's power.
To be rightfully inherited by me.
Not usurped
by some idiot teenage boy,
so incorruptible, he wouldn't shed
the blood of his enemies
even when justified.
You don't deserve your power.
Not power like this.
I'm sorry, sweetheart,
we'll talk about this later.
Kira!
You were my Beta first, Scott.
It was my bite that changed your life.
And my bite that can end it.
Because you won't get another chance.
You're next, Araya.
I'm coming to kill you next.
Come, La Loba.
Let me show you
how the Calaveras die.
You were... You were dead.
No.
I was evolving.
Something you'll never do.
Chris?
Come on, Scott.
Come on!
Come on.
Fight like an Alpha.
You want to beat me?
You're going to have to kill me!
You were never an Alpha, Peter.
But you were always a monster.
You want to kill me, Chris?
No.
But I don't want to
save you anymore either.
I don't know that you're worth saving.
It's just like when we were kids.
Always trying to make me the bad guy.
You can't see them
clearly anymore, can you?
Scott's not your little hero.
None of 'em are.
Not when they killed Allison.
Allison died.
She died saving her friends.
Who would you die for? Hmm?
You're not gonna kill me.
And you're not gonna catch me.
Not you.
Not Peter. And not the Calaveras.
There's enough yellow wolfsbane
to keep Peter out for the trip back.
But be careful.
You're really going with them?
I made a deal with
the Calaveras weeks ago.
They'll leave you alone.
All of you.
But only it! help them catch Kate.
What if you can't?
I'll find her. Someone has to.
So you're not really
a U.S. Marshal, are you?
I was. But I spent too long
looking for one person.
It's hard to keep a job
when part of it becomes an obsession.
Who were you after?
All I know is a code name.
The Desert Wolf.
Dad, you smell terrible.
Yup. You do too.
Hi, Malia.
I'm just so glad you're both safe.
Hey, what do you say
we get outta here, get something to eat?
- Great. I'm starving.
- Okay.
Yo, Daddy?
- What's your favorite food?
- Uh, pizza.
Hey.
Dad?
Bring me back a slice?
The shard of obsidian
that you brought back, Kira.
There's a reason you kept it.
And a reason your father
took the liberty of
making an alteration to it.
Do you know what it is?
A tail.
Your first.
Then Stiles said
that Scott and Kira were stuck in Mexico
which was why they missed the game.
Uh, so we went down to Mexico
to drive them back from Mexico
and that's why we all missed practice.
'Cause...
- We were all in Mexico.
- Yeah.
You took Kira on a date to Mexico?
- It was our first real date.
- In Mexico?
They wanted to do something special.
Okay. I believe you.
- Really?
- Absolutely not.
But I've had experiences
south of the border
that would knock
the genitals off you boys.
Still, let me be clear to you two.
This kid's the best talent
I've seen in years.
So he's your responsibility now.
You boys are gonna stick together.
You're gonna look out for each other.
And you're gonna have
each other's backs. You got it?
We got it.
This used to be on a hard drive.
But we eventually
decided it might be a good idea
to have a hard copy around.
So we put it in a book.
What is it?
It's called "The Bestiary."
Whatever you are,
it might be in here.
I'd like to help you figure it out.
You actually think
this is gonna hold me?
You think you can
shoot me up with wolfsbane,
make me docile and weak,
and I won't find a way out?
It's not just the wolfsbane.
It's the mountain ash wood
framework of the cells.
It's all around us.
Who the hell are you?
I could tell you.
But it's easier if I just... show you.